---
layout: post
title: Finals
---

I was always a part of the academic crowd in high school. Our school wasn't the biggest one ever, and a vast majority of people spent their time either in band, various sports, or doing anything but school, but there were still a handful of us who truly dedicated ourselves to studying. Most of us were in Calculus together, and so we would go to coffee shops, sit down, and work practice problems for hours every weekend. Honestly, the only reason I ever finished anything for that class was because I had other people who relied on me being at our study sessions each weekend. Without them, the motivation just wouldn't have been there and I would never have finished what I needed to get done.

I thought that we did a lot of studying, and that our life kind of devolved into a scholastic sprint to try to prepare outselves for the AP tests we had coming up. Every weekend I was neck deep in books and study sessions; dusk 'till dawn was just class hammering home concept after concept after concept. And that was that, I thought that I knew what a community transforming to pass a test was all about.

And then I came to college. Finals week started literally yesterday, and already I can sense the difference in the community's atmosphere.

This morning, I woke up at 9.45, a time that seems to be reasonably well slept in, but since I had fallen asleep at 2am, a mere 8 hours previous, it was not the long sleep that it is made out to be. I met up with my best friend, and we went down into the laundry room to sit and study. The amount of work that had been piling up for me was beginning to weigh me down. Over the course of this week, I have to finish two programming projects, several math assignments, two papers, and prep for four different finals. I certainly had not set myself up for success, and it is going to be a fight every day to get ready enough and finish everything that needs to be done.

So this morning, I sat down and listed out everything I needed to do:
* COSC Lab 9
* Final Honors Reflection
* Math Homework 13
* Math Extra Credit 1
* Math Extra Credit 2
* Math Sections 5.4, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3
* COSC Homework 8
* Chapter 12: Networking Online Lecture
* Service Reflection
* Take Home Final

And almost certainly one or two small things not significant enough for me to remember without looking at my list. It seemed to be nearly an impossible task, and I was overwhelmed just looking at the list of things that I needed to finish in order to be ready for the rest of the week. So instead of starting into the pile, doing what was necessary, I started making more lists and tables.

I wrote out all of the due-dates for everything first.
Then I put them into a table based on how much time I needed to finish each assignment.
Then I slotted each assignment into each day so that I would be able to see if I was getting things done on time.
And then I started to work.

Now an important note about me and doing schoolwork; I can focus and work incredibly diligently for about an hour at a time, after that though, my focus deteriorates and I need a break. Otherwise, nothing else will get done. Even my last year at high school, work that should have taken me thirty minutes would take over an hour if I had been working for very long.

Something was different today though. I sat down, focussed up, and just wrote. I finished the first half of my paper in just under an hour. Then I worked through a math assignment. Then it was suddenly time for lunch and I was still in the mood to be productive. Something had just clicked and I was able to tune out everything in my mind and just work. There wasn't the distraction of people. I couldn't be taken away from the task by a good song I just wanted to listen to. I was just working, and that was it.

The day kept going, and this incredible focus followed me the entire time. I could sit down for a half hour and get a full half hours worth of work finished in that time.

Except it wasn't just me either. I got in the elevator to go run back to my dorm real fast, and started talking with a guy next to me. He was so in the zone, he was gonna run, grab food, run through some flash cards while he ate, and then dash back to finish an English paper. His energy, the same as mine, just seemed to permeate through the atmosphere of the campus.

It was such a strange experience, to have a community that used to be super joke-ey, mess around, and chatty, suddenly sober up to the point of electrifying the entire campus with this focussed energy.

It was such a strange experienve, that I just needed to do something about it. I plan on carrying this feeling through the entire week and then crashing hardcore next Tuesday. That'll be it, and it's going to be useful, productive, and successful. Here goes. Until next time.

-Andey
