---
layout: post
title: The Joy of Doing Nothing
---
Everything about our society seems to be designed to get the optimal amount of productivity and achievement out of each individual person. From the time we begin high school, perhaps even middle school for some, we are pushed into a system where every morning we wake. We go to a building where we sit quietly in a desk for eight hours working through papers and worksheets and readings and classes that give a tangible answer as to whether we have done enough work or not. All so that we can get into a busier, more prestigious class that says we did more work to know more things so that we can continue climbing the ladder of achievement to the summit. At the end of your eight hours, you can go to a job where you complete menial, repetitive tasks ad nauseum. Then you sign off on a piece of paper saying you did tasks all day and go home. Once you're there, you complete assignments and chores and tasks to keep things in order and make certain that you don't fall behind your peers in this never ending arms race to see who can achieve more than the people around them.

It's a wonder more people don't give up and walk away from the system.

When I left school at the end of last semester, I was convinced that I was going to work all through winter break. I was going to get ahead in my classes for the coming term and I was going to set myself up for success on this next leg of my journey. And when I returned to my childhood home, I decided that I couldn't keep up with the incessant grind. I said, "This is enough, it's time to do nothing." In the past, whenever I had done nothing, it had always been as a result of procrastination and depression. An inability to begin the insurmountable number of tasks sitting in front of me. And so, I had never enjoyed just doing nothing. It felt like I was wasting my life and avoiding doing something truly important.

However, this time was different. Making the conscious decision to do nothing seemed to be the only change that I needed. I spent the last four weeks binge watching TV, playing mindless video games that gave me momentary joy, and sleeping more than is necessary. For me, deciding not to do anything for a while ending up being one of the best decisions I've made in recent memory. I was able to forget about the constant pressure I put on myself to do something or be somebody. I was able to be a mindless consumer that delighted in plot twists, stupid dialogue tags, and slapstick humor. I enjoyed this time as one of the most restful periods of time in my life. There was no looming deadlines to work towards. There were no difficult decisions to make. It was simply a time to enjoy life.

So schedule time to do nothing. Set some time aside for you to turn off the little voice in the back of your head that is saying to work harder; saying to achieve more. Make the time to destress and feel a complete absence of expectations.

The feeling is starting to go away, and I'm ready to do things again. I've never really felt the motivation to continue achieving and being something before. It was just the inevitable next step on my never ending journey to the grave. But this time is different. I'm excited to return back to school and learn new things. I'm excited to have the opportunity to go to work. I'm excited to be back at university studying for hours every day. I'm ready to continue my life, and I'm optimistic that I'll be able to find joy in the daily struggle, because I can finally feel the necessity of that within my life. Until next time.

-Andey
